Title: Sukhdi Recipe

prep time: 27

Description: Sukhdi (Gol Papdi/Gur papdi) is a traditional Gujarati sweet usually made in winter months which is so flavorful and has a soft melt in mouth texture. It is made with only 3 Ingredients – whole wheat flour, jaggery(gur/gud), and ghee and the whole process takes only 12-15 minutes. This sweet is the best snack option for kids lunchbox and kids afterschool snack as it’s stomach filling and nutritious.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 cup Whole Wheat Flour (chapati atta)(approx. 130 gm), 1/2 cup grated or finely chopped Jaggery (gud/gol) (70 gm), 1/2 cup Ghee (clarified butter) (125 gm), 2 tablespoons chopped Mixed Dryfruits, optional

Directions:
step-1: Keep all the ingredients ready. For jaggery, either grate it or finely chop it.
step-2: Grease a small plate (4-5 inch diameter) with ghee.
step-3: Heat 1/2 cup ghee(clarified butter) (125 gm) in a heavy based pan over medium flame.
step-4: When the ghee is melted, add 1 cup whole wheat flour(chapati atta) (approx. 130 gm).
step-5: Stir it with a spoon and mix well. It will be like a thick lumpy paste.
step-6: Stir continuously and roast it over low-medium flame until the flour turns golden and a nice aroma releases. It will take approx.5-7 minutes. When the flour is roasted well, the mixture will turn runny, ghee will start to ooze out and you will feel light when you stir it.
step-7: Turn off the flame.
step-8: Let the mixture cool down for a minute. Add 1/2 cup grated or chopped jaggery (gud/gol) (70 gm).
step-9: Mix well. The jaggery will dissolve quickly.
step-10: When the jaggery dissolves completely, pour the mixture into a greased tray (thali).
step-11: Even out the top surface using a flat spatula or using the back of a bowl.
step-12: Sprinkle chopped dryfruits over it and press them with a spatula.
step-13: Let it cool down to room temperature. When it is a little warm, cut it into small squares/diamonds using a knife. When it cools down completely, store it in an airtight container.
step-14: Sukhdi is ready for serving. You can also serve it warm if you like.
