Title: Poha Chivda (fried) Recipe

prep time: 22

Description: Poha chivda is a delicious savory snack made with deep fried flattened rice (rice flakes/poha), peanuts, daliya dal, cashew nuts, raisins and spices. It is one of the popular Diwali namkeens and can be made in two different ways – either by deep frying the poha or by roasting the poha. In this recipe, chivda is prepared by deep frying method in a traditional way. If you want to make the low calorie roasted poha chivda then follow this recipe link.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt, to taste, 1/4 teaspoon Turmeric Powder, 2 cups Thick Poha (flatten rice, rice flakes), 1/4 cup Peanuts (ground nuts), 1/4 cup Cashew Nuts, 1/4 cup Daliya Dal (roasted chana dal), 2 tablespoons Golden Raisins (kishmish), optional, 10-15 Curry Leaves, 1 Green Chilli, chopped, optional, 1 teaspoon powdered Sugar, 1/4 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, 2 tablespoons Oil + for deep frying

Directions:
step-1: Gather all the ingredients. We are going to deep fry them one by one using a large metal sieve (strainer with a handle). Sift the poha using a sieve with large holes.
step-2: Heat around 1 cup oil in a deep frying pan over medium flame. When oil is medium hot, take 1/4 cup peanuts in a large metal sieve and immerse into the hot oil. You can also fry all the nuts and poha without using a sieve as well.
step-3: Deep fry until peanuts are light golden brown. Drain them and transfer to a large bowl over paper napkin.
step-4: Take 1/4 cup cashew nuts in the sieve and deep fry until light golden. Drain and transfer to the bowl.
step-5: Take 2 tablespoons golden raisins (kishmish) in the sieve.
step-6: Deep fry until puffy.
step-7: Take 1/4 cup Daliya Dal (roasted chana dal) in the sieve and deep fry until light golden. Drain and transfer to the bowl.
step-8: Take 10-15 curry leaves and 1 chopped green chilli together in the sieve.
step-9: Deep fry until crispy.
step-10: Now, deep fry the pohas in small batches as they will increase in size after deep frying. Take 2 tablespoons rice poha at a time and deep fry until they puff up and turn crispy.
step-11: Transfer them to the same bowl. Deep fry the remaining poha in batches.
step-12: Add all the spices (1 teaspoon powdered sugar, 1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1/4 teaspoon red chilli powder and salt to taste) while the poha are hot.
step-13: Toss everything together until mixed. Taste the chivda and adjust the spices as per your taste. Poha Chivda is ready for serving. Let it cool down completely before storing in an airtight container. It stays good for 2-3 weeks.
