Title: Aloo Baingan Recipe

prep time: 27

Description: Aloo Baingan (Potato Eggplant Curry) is a basic yet flavorful Indian style sabji that is made by cooking potatoes and eggplant with tomato and common household spices. The sabji prepared by this recipe has a little gravy texture and goes well with chapati, phulka roti and paratha. You can use any type of baingan (purple, green, big, small) according to the availability to make this dish.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt, to taste, 1/4 teaspoon Turmeric Powder, 1 large Potato (approx. 150 gms), peeled and diced, 1 long Eggplant (approx. 200 gms), diced, 3 tablespoons Oil, 1/2 teaspoon Cumin Seeds (jeera), 1/2 teaspoon Ginger-Garlic Paste, 1 medium Tomato, chopped, 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder (or as per taste), 1 teaspoon Cumin-Coriander Powder, 1/4 cup Water, 2 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, for garnishing

Directions:
step-1: Peel and dice potato into long pieces. Dice baingan (eggplant) into long pieces as shown in the picture. Keep diced potato and baingan into two separate bowls filled with water to prevent them from turning brown.
step-2: Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a 3-lityer capacity pressure cooker or in a heavy based kadai or non stick pan over medium flame. Add 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds.
step-3: When they start to sizzle, add 1/2 teaspoon ginger garlic paste.
step-4: Sauté for 30-40 seconds.
step-5: Add chopped tomato (1 medium). Sauté until tomato turns soft, for around 1-2 minutes.
step-6: Add diced potato (1 large). Mix well and sauté for a minute.
step-7: Add diced baingan (eggplant).
step-8: Mix well and sauté for 2-3 minutes over medium flame. This step is necessary to enhance the flavor of the sabji.
step-9: Add 1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder (or as per taste), 1 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder and salt to taste.
step-10: Mix well.
step-11: Add 1/4 cup water. Mix well.
step-12: Close the pressure cooker with a lid and cook for 1-whistle over medium flame. (If you are using a kadai then cover it with a lid and cook until the potatoes turn soft. Stir in between 2-3 times to prevent the sabji from sticking. It will take approx. 5-7 minutes.)
step-13: Turn off the flame. Let the pressure release naturally. Remove the lid and check the potato whether it is cooked or not.
step-14: Garnish with chopped coriander leaves, Aloo Baingan is ready to serve with phulka roti and yellow masoor dal in lunch.
