Title: Avocado Paratha Recipe

prep time: 20

Description: Avocado Paratha is an Indian style soft whole wheat flat bread made using avocado, whole wheat flour and a few spices. They are perfect for kids lunchbox as they stay soft longer. These parathas taste like simple paratha as avocados are bland in the taste. Avocados make the paratha not only super soft but healthy as well because they are rich in good fat (monosaturated fat) which helps lower the bad cholesterol. You can even make the soft rotis with the same dough (don’t add any spices while making the dough) without using oil. Follow the below given recipe with tips to make the soft paratha in 20 minutes at home.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt, to taste, 1 teaspoon Cumin-Coriander Powder, 1 large ripe Avocado, 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, optional, 4 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves (cilantro), 1¼ cups Whole Wheat Flour + (1/2 cup flour, for rolling), 1/2 teaspoon Oil + for shallow frying

Directions:
step-1: Choose the avocado which is ripe (dark purple in color and soft yet a little firm). Cut the avocado into 2 pieces and remove the pit. Scoop the pulp out and transfer it to a large wide mouth bowl.
step-2: Mash the pulp with a fork or a potato masher or a spoon.
step-3: Add 1 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder, 1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder, 4 tablespoons chopped coriander leaves and salt to taste.
step-4: Add 1¼ cup whole wheat flour.
step-5: Mix well and make a smooth and soft dough. If required, add water as needed to make the dough (added 2-3 tablespoons).
step-6: Add 1/2 teaspoon oil and grease the dough and knead for a few seconds.
step-7: Cover the dough and let it rest for 15-20 minutes.
step-8: Divide the dough into 5-6 equal portions and give them a round shape like a ball. Take each one and then press it between your palms to flatten a little bit.
step-9: Take 1/2 cup dry flour in a small wide mouth bowl or a plate for rolling. Take one flattened pattie, coat it with the dry flour put it on the rolling board. Roll it out into a thin 6-inch diameter circle like chapati or roti.
step-10: Heat a tawa/griddle over medium flame. When it is medium hot, place the rolled paratha on it. When tiny bubbles appear on the surface, flip the paratha using a spatula.
step-11: Spread 1/2 teaspoon oil evenly on the surface and let it cook for 30-40 seconds.
step-12: Again, flip the paratha and spread 1/2 teaspoon oil evenly on the surface. Cook until light golden spots appear on both sides. If required, flip once or twice again (don’t spread the oil) to cook the paratha.
step-13: Transfer the paratha to a plate. Follow the same process for the remaining dough. Avocado Paratha is ready for serving. Serve it with cucumber raita or plain yogurt in the breakfast or kids lunchbox.
