Title: Aloo Sev Bhujia Recipe

prep time: 24

Description:  Aloo sev (potato sev/aloo bhujia), a crispy namkeen snack which is made with gram flour, potatoes, and spices. It is usually served with tea in the afternoon and also served with sweets and other namkeens on Diwali. This potato sev gets chatpata namkeen taste from the chaat masala and mild spicy taste from the red chilli powder and black pepper powder. It doesn’t have the similar taste and texture like Haldiram’s Aloo Bhujia but it has chatpata taste. Follow the below given recipe with step by step photos to make it at home.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt, to taste, 1/4 teaspoon Turmeric Powder, 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, 1/2 teaspoon Chaat Masala, 1¼ cup Gram Flour (chickpea flour/besan), 2 medium or 1 large boiled Potato (approx. 180 gm) (mashed or grated), 1/2 teaspoon Black Pepper Powder, 1 tablespoon Oil + for frying

Directions:
step-1: Take 2 medium or 1 large boiled and peeled potato (approx. 180 gm) in a large wide mouth bowl.
step-2: Add 1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder, 1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1/2 teaspoon black pepper powder, 1/2 teaspoon chaat masala, and salt to taste.
step-3: Mash the potatoes either using a potato masher or your hand. Make sure that there are no large pieces of potato. (You can also grate the boiled potatoes in step-1 instead of mashing them).
step-4: Mix well.
step-5: Sift 1¼ cup gram flour (chickpea flour/besan) over it.
step-6: Mix well. If required, add water as needed to bind the soft dough. If the dough looks sticky, don’t worry.
step-7: Grease the dough with 1 tablespoon oil to prevent stickiness.
step-8: Heat oil in a deep kadai or frying pan over medium flame. Take a sevai machine (sev maker) and grease its inside surface and sevai mold (disc with small holes) with oil.
step-9: Grease your palms with oil and make two cylindrical rolls from the dough like this (as shown in the picture).
step-10: Place the cylindrical roll inside the machine.
step-11: Close it.
step-12: Check the oil is hot enough or not – drop a small piece of dough into the oil and if it comes upward immediately without changing the color then it’s hot enough. If it comes upward immediately but changes the color then it’s too hot.
step-13: Hold the machine over kadai with one hand and use another hand to turn the machine handle to press out the thin strand of sev into the hot oil. As the thin strands start to fall out into the oil, move the machine in a circular motion to make sev.
step-14: Deep fry both the sides until it turns crispy and light golden. Don’t wait until it turns brown as it will taste bitter. It takes 1-2 minutes on each side to deep fry depending on the thickness of sev.
step-15: Remove the sev from the oil using a big slotted spoon. Drain excess oil and transfer it to the paper napkin in a plate.
step-16: Sprinkle a pinch of chaat masala over it.
step-17: Repeat the same process to make the sev. If required, increase or decrease the flame to high or low to maintain the even temperature. Don’t fry the sev over low temperature as it will absorb more oil. Break the sev into small pieces. Let it cool down to room temperature. Store it in an airtight container. It stays good for 10-15 days.
