Title: Green Bean Curry with Aloo Recipe

prep time: 36

Description: Green Bean Curry with Potato (aloo) is a simple yet delicious sabji which can be made quickly without much effort, usually served with chapati (phulka roti) for lunch or dinner. This aloo beans curry has a dry texture and made in a kadai (pan) as it does not take much time to cook the beans and potatoes. However, you can also use the pressure cooker to make this(read the tips for detailed instruction). The main ingredients for this sabji are green beans, potato and basic Indian spices while roasted gram flour (besan) and dry mango powder are added along with those to enhance the flavor.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, Salt, to taste, 1/4 teaspoon Turmeric Powder, 2 tablespoons Oil, 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder (or as per taste), 1 teaspoon Cumin-Coriander Powder, 2 tablespoons Gram Flour (chickpea flour / besan), optional, 250 gms Green Beans (French beans), (approx. 1/2 lb), chopped (approx. 2 cups), 1 medium Potato, peeled and diced (approx. 3/4 cup), 1/4 teaspoon Dry Mango Powder (aamchur powder) OR 1/2 teaspoon Lemon Juice, 1 tablespoon + 2 tablespoons Oil (or as needed)

Directions:
step-1: Cut the green beans and potato into small pieces. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a heavy based kadai or a non stick pan. Add 2 tablespoons gram flour (chickpea flour/besan) and roast it over medium flame until it turns golden brown and nice aroma releases. Transfer it in a bowl and keep aside until needed.
step-2: Heat 2 tablespoons oil in the same heavy based kadai or non stick pan over medium flame. Add 1 teaspoon cumin seeds.
step-3: When they start to sizzle, add chopped green beans, potato and salt.
step-4: Mix well and sauté for 2-3 minutes over medium flame. This step is necessary, it enhances the flavor of the sabji. Add 2 tablespoons water and mix well.
step-5: Cover it with a lid and let it cook until the beans and potatoes turn soft. It will take approx. 5-7 minutes.
step-6: Stir in between 2-3 times to prevent the sabji from sticking. If the sabji sticks a little bit, don’t worry. You can add 1-2 tablespoons more water if required.
step-7: Add 1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder, 1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder (or as per taste), 1 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder and 1/4 teaspoon dry mango powder (aamchur powder or 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice).
step-8: Mix well. Stir and cook for a minute.
step-9: Add 2 tablespoons roasted gram flour (chickpea flour / besan). Mix well and cook covered for 1-2 minutes.
step-10: Turn off the flame. Aloo green beans sabji is ready for serving.
