Title: Lobia Curry Punjabi Recipe

prep time: 40

Description: Lobia Curry (black eyed beans curry/ choli nu shaak) is a simple yet delicious curry (sabji with gravy) from north Indian cuisine which is usually served with roti or rice in lunch. This curry can be made in two ways – 1. First the oaked beans are boiled until soft and then cooked with spices, 2. Soaked beans are cooked with spices and then boiled until soft. In this recipe, we have used the second method and cooked the soaked beans with onion and tomato based masala in a pressure cooker but you can choose any one method as per your preference. This one is perfect for bachelors as it’s stomach feeling, can be prepared in advance, very easy to make and stays good in refrigerator for 3-4 days. To make this curry, it doesn’t matter whether you are a novice cook or cooking expert, you will get the perfect taste each time. Follow the given below recipe with step by step photos to make this curry at home.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, Salt, to taste, 1/4 teaspoon Turmeric Powder, 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, 1 teaspoon Cumin-Coriander Powder, 1/2 teaspoon grated Ginger (or paste), 1 Green Chilli, chopped, 1 medium Onion, finely chopped (approx. ½ cup), 1½ cups Water, 1 tablespoon Oil, 4-5 Curry Leaves, optional, 2 tablespoons Coriander Leaves, for garnishing, 3/4 cup Lobia (black eyed peas/dry choli), soaked in water for 4-6 hours or overnight, 1 medium Tomato, finely chopped or pureed (approx. ½ cup)

Directions:
step-1: Rinse 3/4 cup lobia (black eyed peas/chauli) for 2-3 times and soak them in enough water for 4-6 hours or overnight.
step-2: After soaking, they will increase in size. Drain them and rinse again with water.
step-3: Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a 3 or 5 litre capacity pressure cooker over medium flame. Add 1 teaspoon cumin seeds. When they sizzle, add 1/2 teaspoon grated ginger, 4-5 curry leaves and 1 chopped green chilli. Sauté them for 30 seconds.
step-4: Add 1/2 cup finely chopped onion. Sauté until onion turns translucent.
step-5: Add 1/2 cup chopped tomato. Sauté until tomatoes turn soft or for 1-2 minutes.
step-6: Add 1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder, 1 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder and 1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder.
step-7: Mix well and sauté for 30 seconds.
step-8: Add soaked and drained lobia (black eyed peas) and salt.
step-9: Stir and cook for 1-2 minutes.
step-10: Add 1½ cups water (use double amount of water – for 1 part of beans: use 2 parts water).
step-11: Mix well and close the lid. Cook for 6-8 whistles or until the beans are soft.
step-12: Turn off the flame. Let the pressure release naturally. Remove the lid and check the lobia (black eyed peas). They should be soft.
step-13: If you don’t like more gravy or if you want thick gravy then mash the few lobia beans with backside of a spoon and cook again for 2-3 minutes or until you get the desired consistency.
step-14: Turn off the flame and transfer the curry in a serving bowl. Garnish it with chopped coriander leaves or julienned ginger.
