Title: Rice Kheer In Pressure Cooker Recipe

prep time: 24

Description: Kheer made with Rice (chawal ki kheer) doesn’t need any introduction. It’s a traditional sweet from Indian cuisine which is made with rice, milk, sugar, ghee and flavored with cardamom powder. In this recipe, the pressure cooker is used to cook the rice and then rice are cooked with milk and sugar until thick consistency to make the kheer. You can also use leftover rice or can cook the rice previously to speed up the process. Don’t forget to read the tips before making this dessert to make it perfect.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1/3 cup Rice (long grain or short grain) or (1¼ cup cooked rice), 2½ cups Whole Milk (full fat milk), 1/4 cup + 2 tablespoons Sugar or to taste, 1/8 teaspoon Cardamom Powder, 1 teaspoon + 2 teaspoons Ghee, 2 tablespoons Almonds and Cashew nuts (chopped), optional

Directions:
step-1: If you are using the cooked rice, skip steps 1-2 and steps 5-7. If you are using raw rice, follow the steps given below. Wash 1/3 cup rice in water for 2-3 times. Soak them in water for 30 minutes. If you are in hurry, you can skip soaking the rice.
step-2: After 30 minutes, drain off the excess water from soaked rice.
step-3: Meanwhile, roast the nuts. Heat 1 teaspoon ghee in a small pan/kadai over medium flame. Add 2 tablespoons chopped almonds and cashew nuts.
step-4: Roast until they turn light brown, it will take around a minute. Transfer them to a small bowl or a plate.
step-5: Transfer drained soaked rice to a 2-3 liter capacity pressure cooker. Pour 2/3 cup water (double the amount of water to rice) and close the lid. Cook the rice for 2-3 whistles over medium flame. Turn off the flame.
step-6: Let the pressure release naturally. After that, remove the lid.
step-7: Add 2½ cups milk and sugar (1/4 cup + 2 tablespoons). Mix well. Stir and cook until mixture turns little thick.
step-8: Mash the rice with backside of a spoon. (You can also use the hand blender for a few seconds to mash the rice in step-8(Be careful as the mixture is hot. Remove cooker from the gas stove and then use hand blender.))
step-9: Cook until mixture turns medium thick. It will take 12-15 minutes over low flame. Stir it at regular intervals to prevent sticking. You need to stir it continuously after it starting to turn little thick.
step-10: Add 2 teaspoons ghee (for flavor) and mix well.
step-11: Add 1/8 teaspoon cardamom powder and mix well.
step-12: Add roasted dry fruits. Mix well and cook until kheer thickens. It will thicken as it cools down so don’t cook it until it turns very thick.
step-13: Turn off the flame. Either serve it hot or let it cool down at room temperature and then keep in the refrigerator for at least 2-3 hours before serving.
