Title: Besan Ladoo with Almonds (Badam) for Kids Recipe

prep time: 23

Description: Besan Badam Ladoo recipe is similar to the traditional besan ke laddu except for the addition of almond flour (badam powder). It’s a perfect healthy snack for growing kids who doesn’t like to eat whole nuts (dry fruits). First, roast the besan with ghee and then add powdered almonds, let the mixture cool until little warm, then add sugar and cardamom powder, and make laddus from them. Don’t forget to read the recipe and tips before making them for perfect laddus.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1½ cups Besan (gram flour / chickpea flour) (plain or coarse), 1½ cups Whole Almonds or 2½ cups Almond Flour/Powder, 3/4 cup Ghee (clarified butter), 1/4 teaspoon Green Cardamom Powder, 1 cup Powdered Sugar

Directions:
step-1: Note: you can use half amount of cashew nuts and half amount of almonds instead of using only almonds. If you are using readymade almond flour/powder, skip step-2 and step-3.
step-2: If you are using whole almonds – Take 1½ cups almonds in the small jar of a mixer grinder and grind until smooth or coarse powder (depending on the texture you like in laddu).
step-3: Heat 3/4 cup ghee in a heavy based pan / kadai over medium flame.
step-4: When it starts melting, add 1½ cups besan (gram flour / chickpea flour)
step-5: Mix well. Stir continuously and roast the besan over low flame.
step-6: Stir and cook until nice aroma releases and it turns light golden brown over low flame. It will take 8-10 minutes over low flame. Don’t roast it over medium or high flame to prevent it from burning.
step-7: Turn off the flame. Add half of the powdered almond.
step-8: Add half of the powdered almond.
step-9: Mix well and add remaining powdered almond.
step-10: Mix well.
step-11: Transfer the mixture to a big plate and let it cool at room temperature until little warm. It will take around 10-15 minutes or more depending on the weather.
step-12: When the mixture is little warm, add 1/4 teaspoon green cardamom powder and 1 cup powdered sugar. Don’t add sugar to the hot mixture.
step-13: Mix well using your hands until sugar and flour are well blended.
step-14: Make round shaped small laddus from the mixture. They will hold the shape nicely after cooling for a few hours. Let the laddus cool at room temperature for 3-4 hours before transferring them to a container.
step-15: Besan aur Badam ke Ladoo are ready for serving. They stay good for 2-3 weeks in an airtight container at room temperature.
