Title: Chana Dal Recipe

prep time: 25

Description: Chana dal or chana dal curry is a protein rich simple dal (lentil curry) made with split chickpeas popular in India. This recipe is one of the healthy Indian recipes and easy to prepare at home using basic ingredients and spices, which are easily available in kitchen and generally used to prepare routine dishes.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1/4 teaspoon Turmeric Powder, 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, 1/2 cup Chana Dal (yellow chickpeas lentils), 1/2 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, A pinch of Asafoetida (hing), 1 small Onion, finely chopped, 1/2 teaspoon grated Ginger, optional, 3-4 cloves of Garlic, finely chopped, 1 Green Chilli, finely chopped, 1 Tomato, chopped, 1/2 teaspoon Coriander Powder, 2 tablespoon finely chopped Coriander Leaves, Salt, 1¼ cup Water, 1½ tablespoons Oil

Directions:
step-1: Wash chana dal in water and soak it for 30 minutes to 1 hour (as per your choice). Soaking the dal helps it cook faster and easy to digest. Drain excess water and keep aside.
step-2: Heat 1½ tablespoons oil in a 2 or 3-liter capacity steel/aluminum pressure cooker. Add 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds and a pinch of asafoetida (hing). Add finely chopped onion.
step-3: Sauté until onion turns light pink.
step-4: Add 1 green chilli (finely chopped), 3-4 cloves of garlic (finely chopped) and 1/2 teaspoon grated ginger (or paste).
step-5: Sauté for a minute.
step-6: Add 1 finely chopped tomato and sauté for a minute.
step-7: Add 1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder, 1 teaspoon coriander powder and 1/4 teaspoon turmeric powder and salt.
step-8: Stir and cook for a minute. Remove 1 tablespoon tadka to a small bowl and keep it aside for garnishing.
step-9: Add 1/2 cup soaked chana dal and mix well. Cook for a minute.
step-10: Add salt and 1-cup water. Mix well.
step-11: Close the lid and pressure cook it for 5-6-whistles over medium flame or until the dal turns soft. Turn off the flame and let the pressure release naturally. Do not open the lid immediately otherwise dal may remain uncooked.
step-12: Open the lid. Lightly mash the dal with the backside of a spoon.
step-13: Cook until you get the desired consistency for 2-3 minutes.
step-14: Turn off the flame. Add coriander leaves and previously kept tadka (kept in step-8).
step-15: Chana dal is ready for serving.
