Title: Bread Roll Recipe

prep time: 23

Description: Bread roll is a popular Indian snack which is very easy to make and can be prepared within 20 minutes if you have boiled potatoes and leftover bread slices. The process is very simple, first the potato mixture is prepared for stuffing and then the bread slices are stuffed with that mixture and then deep fried until golden and crispy. For the stuffing, the basic potato mixture is prepared in this recipe. But you can prepare it in different ways by adding the boiled vegetables (carrot, green peas, beans, etc.), grated paneer, grated cheese, etc. along with boiled potatoes. Follow the below given recipe and don’t forget to read the tips about how to make the bread rolls crispy before making them at home.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Oil, for deep frying, 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, 1 teaspoon Cumin-Coriander Powder, Salt to taste, 6 Bread Slices, 3 medium or 2 large Potatoes, boiled, 1/4 cup(4 tablespoons) finely chopped Coriander Leaves, 1 medium Onion, finely chopped (1/3 cup), 1-2 Green Chilli, finely chopped (as per taste), 1/2 teaspoon Dry Mango Powder (amchur powder) or 1/2 teaspoon Lemon Juice

Directions:
step-1: Boil potatoes in salted water in a pressure cooker for 3-4 whistles over medium flame or until soft. Transfer boiled potatoes to a colander to drain excess water. Let them cool for a while at room temperature. Peel the potatoes and transfer them to a large bowl.
step-2: Mash them.
step-3: Add 1/3 cup finely chopped onion(1 medium), 1/4 cup(4 tablespoons) finely chopped coriander leaves, 1 finely chopped green chilli, red chilli powder, 1 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder and 1/2 teaspoon dry mango powder(amchur powder) (or 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice). Add salt only if you have not added while oiling the potatoes OR just taste the boiled potatoes for salt and add more if required.
step-4: Mix well.
step-5: Take the bread and cut the sides using a knife of each slice.
step-6: Take 1/2 cup water in a wide bowl or a plate. Take one slice and lightly dip it in the water for a second and quickly remove it.
step-7: Now squeeze off the excess water by gently pressing the slice between your palms, remove as much water as possible without breaking the bread slice. Just dip the slice to lightly moisten the bread, do not dip it completely as it will break the slice while removing the water and also it will absorb more oil while deep frying.
step-8: Now take a small portion of stuffing mixture and place it in the center lengthwise diagonally (or make the small cylindrical shape rolls of stuffing mixture and place one roll inside).
step-9: First, wrap the stuffing mixture from two opposite sides as shown in the photo.
step-10: Then cover it from remaining two sides and give it a cylindrical shape. Make sure that the stuffing is covered well from all the sides. If the stuffing is exposed somewhere then cover it with the piece of a wet bread.
step-11: Make the remaining bread rolls in similar way.
step-12: Heat the oil in a deep pan for frying over medium flame. Make sure that the oil is hot enough, otherwise the rolls will absorb more oil while frying. When the oil is medium hot, slide 2-3 rolls from the sides.
step-13: Deep fry them until golden brown and crispy.
step-14: Remove them using a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate lined with paper towel. Bread rolls are ready to serve. Serve them hot as they turn soft when cooled. They taste great with tomato ketchup and green chutney.
