Title: Corn Cheese Balls Recipe

prep time: 39

Description:  This corn cheese balls recipe is for restaurant type cheese balls which have melted cheesy texture, delicious taste and not only that they are quick and easy to prepare compared to these stuffed cheese balls. As these yummy cheese balls can be prepared in advance, they are perfect to serve as a party starter or as an afternoon snack to kids. You just need boiled sweet corn, potatoes, cheese and a few basic spices to make them at home. And not only that, you can cook them in 3 different ways, either by – 1.baking, 2.shallow frying or 3.deep frying. Follow the below given recipe with step by step photos and don’t forget to read the tips section for detailed instruction.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Oil, for deep frying, Salt, to taste, Salt to taste, 1/2 teaspoon grated Ginger, 1 Green Chilli, finely chopped, 2 medium Potatoes, boiled (1 cup, mashed), 1/2 cup boiled Sweet Corn, 3/4 cup grated Cheese (mozzarella or processed), 4 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, 1/2 teaspoon Chaat Masala Powder, 1/4 teaspoon Black Pepper Powder, 2 tablespoons Breadcrumbs, 2 tablespoons Maida (all purpose flour), 2 tablespoons Cornstarch (cornflour), 1/4 cup Water (or as needed), 1/2 cup Breadcrumbs

Directions:
step-1: Boil 2 medium potatoes and 1/2 cup sweet corn until soft. Peel the boiled potatoes and grate them or mash them and transfer to a large bowl.
step-2: Add boiled sweet corns.
step-3: Add 3/4 cup grated Cheese (mozzarella or processed).
step-4: Add 4 tablespoons finely chopped coriander leaves, 1/2 teaspoon grated ginger, 1 finely chopped green chilli, 1/2 teaspoon chaat masala powder, 1/4 teaspoon black pepper powder, 2 tablespoons breadcrumbs (or more as needed) and salt.
step-5: Mix well. If the mixture is sticky and not easy to handle then add more breadcrumbs. Check the mixture for salt and add more if required.
step-6: Make 10-12 small lemon sized balls from the mixture.
step-7: Take a medium bowl and add 2 tablespoons cornstarch (white corn flour) and 2 tablespoons maida (all purpose flour) to it. Add water(approx. 1/4 cup) little by little as needed and mix well to make a medium thick paste. Take 1/2 cup dry breadcrumbs in a plate or a bowl.
step-8: Take each ball one by one and roll it in the breadcrumbs.
step-9: Transfer them to a plate.
step-10: Take one ball and dip it into the cornstarch-maida paste. Make sure that the ball is coated evenly from all the sides.
step-11: Remove the ball carefully (either using a spoon or your fingers) and roll it in bread crumbs.
step-12: Make sure that the ball is evenly coated with breadcrumbs.
step-13: Do the same process for remaining balls. Raw cheese balls are ready. Either deep fry them by following the next step or store them in a ziplock bag for future use (they stay good for up to 1 month in the freezer.) If you are not in jiffy then freeze the raw balls for 30 minutes before deep frying to prevent the cheese from oozing out.
step-14: Heat the oil in a deep frying pan over medium flame. When the oil is medium hot (check by dropping a small portion of mixture into the hot oil and if it comes upward without changing its color then oil is ready), first slide only one cheese ball into the oil and deep fry until it turns golden from all the sides. If it’s perfect then slide 4-5 cheese balls at a time into the hot oil.
step-15: Flip them once or twice and deep fry until they turn golden from all the sides.
step-16: Remove them using a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate over paper towel. Corn Potato Cheese balls are ready for serving. Serve them hot with tomato ketchup.
