Title: Veg Seekh Kabab Recipe

prep time: 20

Description: Veg Seekh Kabab is a delicious snack cum starter made using mixed vegetables like carrot, beans, cabbage, peas, capsicum, potatoes and spices. Traditionally seekh kababs are made from minced meat and grilled in tandoor or a clay oven. But in this recipe, we are going to make a vegetarian version of this kabab. First, the mixture is prepared using mixed veggies, gram flour and spices, and it is shaped on a skewer to make kabab, and then it is grilled in a tandoor or shallow fried on a tava. Finally, kababs are served with green mint chutney, lemon wedges and onion rings. These kababs can also be used as a stuffing to make veg frankie or paratha roll.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt, to taste, 1 teaspoon Cumin-Coriander Powder, 2 medium Potatoes, boiled (approx. 1½ cups mashed potatoes), 1/2 cup Green Peas (boiled or blanched), 2½ tablespoons Gram Flour(Besan/Chickpea Flour), 1/4 cup finely chopped Onion, 1 Green Chili, finely chopped, optional, 1/2 cup finely chopped Cabbage, 1/2 cup finely chopped Carrot, 1/2 cup finely chopped Green Beans, 1/4 cup finely chopped Capsicum, 2 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, 1 tablespoon finely chopped Mint Leaves, 1 teaspoon Red Chili Powder, 1/2 teaspoon Garam Masala Powder, 1 teaspoon Chaat Masala Powder, 1 tablespoon Lemon Juice, 3 tablespoon Breadcrumbs (or as needed), 1 tablespoon Oil + Shallow frying

Directions:
step-1: Add 2½ tablespoons gram flour(besan/chickpea flour) in a pan or a kadai and dry roast it over a low flame until nice aroma releases and it turns light golden. (No need to add the oil while roasting the flour.) Transfer the roasted flour to a bowl.
step-2: Wipe the pan with a cloth. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in the same pan over medium flame. Add 1/4 cup finely chopped onion and 1 finely chopped green chilli. Sauté until onion turns translucent or light pink.
step-3: Add 1/2 cup finely chopped cabbage, 1/2 cup finely chopped carrot, 1/2 cup finely chopped green beans, 1/4 cup finely chopped capsicum and salt.
step-4: Mix well and cook all the vegetables until soft but not mushy. (or Cook until most of the moisture is evaporated).
step-5: Let them cool to room temperature. Transfer them to the small jar of a mixer grinder or a chopper. Add 2 tablespoons finely chopped coriander leaves and 1 tablespoon finely chopped mint leaves.
step-6: Pulse them for a few times as you can see in the picture (don’t blend them very fine or don’t make a paste). Don’t add any water while blending the mixture.
step-7: Boil 2 medium potatoes and 1/2 cup green peas in salted water until soft. Transfer them to a colander to remove excess water.
step-8: Peel the potatoes and transfer to a large bowl. Either mash them or grate them. Add boiled green peas.
step-9: Add veggie mixture.
step-10: Add 1 teaspoon red chilli powder, 1 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder, 1/2 teaspoon garam masala powder, 1 teaspoon chaat masala powder, 1 tablespoon lemon juice, 2½ tablespoons roasted gram flour(from step-1) and salt to taste.
step-11: Mix well. Add 3 tablespoons breadcrumbs.
step-12: Mix well. If the mixture has too much moisture, add more breadcrumbs (as needed).
step-13: Grease your palms with oil. Take a ball size portion of the mixture and give it a cylindrical shape. Then take a wooden skewer/metal skewer and insert into the center.
step-14: Press the mixture evenly and give it a kabab shape/cylindrical shape. Place it in a plate.
step-15: Make the remaining kababs in a similar way.
step-16: Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a non-stick tava/pan or an iron tava. Place 2-3 kababs over hot tava. Roast/shallow fry them until golden brown from all the sides. Rotate them in between to roast them evenly from all the sides. If required, add more oil to roast the kababs.
step-17: Transfer them to a plate and serve with green coriander chutney or tomato ketchup and sliced onion and lemon wedges.
