Title: Manchow Soup Recipe

prep time: 37

Description: Manchow Soup is another popular soup recipe from Indian chinese cuisine. This hot and spicy veg soup is perfect to serve as an appetizer or with the main course like hakka noodles or fried rice during cold winter days. The making process of this soup is similar to the hot and sour soup but this one is topped with crispy fried noodles at the time of serving. This soup has a thick consistency. However, you can easily adjust the consistency of the soup as per your preference by increasing or decreasing the amount of cornstarch (read in the tips section). Follow the below given recipe with step by step photos to make Vegetable Manchow Soup at home.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Oil, for deep frying, Salt to taste, A pinch of Black Pepper Powder, 1/4 cup finely chopped Capsicum, 100 gms Hakka Noodles, boiled, 1 tablespoon Cornflour (cornstarch), 2 tablespoons Cornflour (corn starch), 1/2 tablespoon Oil, 1/2 tablespoon finely chopped Garlic, 1/2 tablespoon finely chopped Ginger, 1 medium Onion, finely chopped (approx. 1/4 cup), 1/4 cup finely chopped Carrot, 1/4 cup finely chopped Green Beans, 1/4 cup finely chopped Tomato, 1/3 cup finely chopped Cabbage, 2 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, optional, 2 cups Vegetable Stock or Water, 1 tablespoon Soy Sauce, 2 teaspoons Chilli Sauce, 1/2 teaspoon Vinegar, 1-2 tablespoons finely chopped Green Onion, optional

Directions:
step-1: Sprinkle 1 tablespoon cornflour(cornstarch) over boiled noodles. Toss them well to coat each noodle with flour evenly. Deep fry the noodles in hot oil until crispy. (See the step by step photos and detailed directions for “crispy noodles“.)
step-2: Mix 2 tablespoons cornflour(cornstarch) with 1/4 cup water and keep aside. Make sure that there are no lumps.
step-3: Heat 1/2 tablespoon oil in a deep pot or a kadai over medium flame. Add 1/2 tablespoon finely chopped garlic, 1/2 tablespoon finely chopped ginger and 1 finely chopped onion. Sauté until onion turns translucent, for 1-2 minutes.
step-4: Add 1/4 cup finely chopped carrot, 1/4 cup finely chopped green beans, 1/4 cup finely chopped capsicum, 1/4 cup finely chopped tomato and 1/3 cup finely chopped cabbage.
step-5: Sauté until all veggies are cooked but still crunchy, for approx. 2-minutes.
step-6: Add 2 tablespoons finely chopped coriander leaves and mix well.
step-7: Add 2 cups vegetable stock or water.
step-8: Add 2 teaspoons chili sauce and 1/2 teaspoon vinegar.
step-9: Add 1 tablespoon soy sauce.
step-10: Mix well and let the soup cook over medium flame.
step-11: When the soup starts boiling, add cornflour-water mixture and mix well. Stir continuously for a minute to prevent any lumps formation.
step-12: Add a pinch of black pepper powder and salt to taste.
step-13: Add 1-2 tablespoons finely chopped green onion.
step-14: Let the soup cook until it starts to thicken. It will take 3-5 minutes. Turn off the flame. Manchow Soup is ready for serving. Transfer it to individual serving bowls and garnish with green onions and fried noodles.
