Title: Paneer Pakora Recipe

prep time: 30

Description: Paneer pakora is a deep fried popular north Indian snack with a crispy outer layer of gram flour and soft and moist paneer from the inside. Paneer slices (or cubes) are coated with the batter of gram flour(besan) and then deep fried until crispy. These pakoras can be made in two different ways- 1).simple (without stuffing), and 2). with the stuffing of green chutney (or tomato ketchup or chaat masala powder). For simple pakoras, paneer cubes are directly dipped into the gram flour batter and then deep fried. In this recipe, we have made the pakoras with the stuffing of green chutney. You can make the pakoras either simple or with the stuffing as per your preference. Both ways they taste delicious with the green chutney. Serve this hot mouthwatering delight as an appetizer or starter with green chutney and tomato ketchup in the kid’s party or as an afternoon snack with a cup of tea/coffee. Learn how to make paneer pakoda at home by following the below given detailed recipe and photos.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Oil, for deep frying, 1/4 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, Salt to taste, 125 grams(4 oz) Paneer, 2 tablespoons Green Chutney + more for serving, 1/4 teaspoon Chaat Masala Powder, 3/4 cup Gram Flour (besan/ chickpea flour), A pinch of Baking Soda, optional, 1/4 teaspoon Garam Masala Powder, optional

Directions:
step-1: Make thick green chutney by following this recipe. Add less water while making to make thick chutney. You can also use garlic chutney or chaat masala powder or any other chutney instead of green chutney.
step-2: Cut paneer into 1½-inch wide and 1/3-inch thick(or 1/2-inch) 8-9 slices or small rectangles or squares.
step-3: Take a slice of paneer and cut it from the middle keeping the other side intact using a knife. Cut all the slices in a similar way.
step-4: Take one paneer slice and stuff it with the green chutney.
step-5: Repeat the same process for remaining ones. Sprinkle chaat masala over it.
step-6: Heat oil in a deep frying pan or a kadai over medium flame. Meanwhile, let’s make the batter. Take 3/4 cup gram flour, a pinch of baking soda, 1/4 teaspoon garam masala powder, 1/4 teaspoon red chilli powder and salt in a medium bowl.
step-7: Mix all ingredients using a spoon. Add water little by little (used approx. 1/3 cup, add more or less as needed) and mix well to make smooth and thick batter having pouring consistency. Make sure that there are no lumps in the batter.
step-8: When the oil is medium hot, dip a stuffed paneer slice in the prepared batter and coat it evenly.
step-9: Place it gently into the hot oil. Add 3-4 slices at a time depending on the size of the pan. When the top surface turns light golden brown, flip them using a slotted spoon.
step-10: Deep fry them until crispy and light golden brown from both the sides. Take them out using a slotted spoon.
step-11: Drain excess oil and place them over the paper napkin in a plate. Hot paneer pakoras are ready to serve with green chutney or tomato ketchup.
