Title: Idli Podi (Milagai Podi) Recipe

prep time: 24

Description: Idli Podi (milagai podi) is a flavorful spicy chutney powder, which is mixed with ghee or sesame oil (gingelly oil) and served as an accompaniment with idli or dosa in most of the south Indian households. It is basically used as a substitute for traditional coconut chutney to serve with idli while travelling or in kids’ lunch box. All the ingredients (Chana dal, urad dal, dry red chillies, sesame seeds, curry leaves and asafetida) are roasted separately and the ground to fine or slightly coarse powder to make this spicy podi. You can also add dry coconut and garlic for nice garlic flavor to make this podi or make it more or less spicy as per your taste preference by increasing or decreasing the amount of dry red chilli (read in tips section). Follow the below given idli podi recipe with step by step photos to make this spicy powder at home.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt to taste, 1/4 cup Chana Dal, 1/4 cup Urad Dal, 1/4 cup Sesame Seeds, 5 Dry Red Chillis, 5-6 Curry Leaves, 1/4 teaspoon Asafoetida (hing), 1½ teaspoons Oil

Directions:
step-1: Measure all the lentils and other ingredients and keep them ready.
step-2: Heat 1/2 teaspoon oil in a pan over medium flame. Add chana dal.
step-3: Sauté it over medium-low flame until light golden brown and nice aroma comes. Transfer it to a plate and let it cool at room temperature.
step-4: Add 1/2 teaspoon oil in the same pan. Add urad dal.
step-5: Sauté it over medium-low flame until light golden brown and nice aroma comes. Transfer it to the same plate and let it cool at room temperature. Make sure that dal doesn’t burn or turn black.
step-6: Add sesame seeds in the same pan.
step-7: Roast them until light golden brown. Transfer them to the same plate.
step-8: Add remaining 1/2 teaspoon oil in the same pan. Add dried red chilli and curry leaves.
step-9: Sauté until curry leaves turn crispy. Turn off the flame. Add asafetida.
step-10: Mix well. Transfer them to the same plate.
step-11: Let all the ingredients cool at room temperature.
step-12: When they cool completely, transfer them to the jar of a mixer grinder or a blender. Add salt.
step-13: Grind until smooth powder. If you like, you can grind them until slightly coarse, medium coarse or fine powder. Store it in an airtight container. It stays good for 15-20 days at room temperature and for 5-6 months in the refrigerator.
