Title: Instant Khoya (Mawa Milk Powder) Recipe

prep time: 31

Description: Khoya (khoa/mawa) plays an important role while making most of the Indian sweets (mithai). Traditionally, it is prepared by simmering the milk till almost moisture evaporates and reduces to solids. We have already shared this traditional recipe of khoya (mawa), it gives the perfect khoya but it’s time consuming. Nowadays, it is hard to get time for cooking and if you prefer to make everything at home from scratch then this instant recipe of making mawa using milk powder is perfect for you. This mawa is also good to make all types of sweets and desserts (read tips section).There are two methods given below to make instant mawa (1. hard mawa, and 2. soft /chikna mawa). In most of the sweets recipes, you can use both types of mawa but in some recipes like gulab jamun you need soft/chikna mawa. Follow the below given recipe to make mawa at home and don’t forget to read the notes given below ingredients table before making it.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1/2 cup Milk, 1 cup full fat Milk Powder, 1/4 cup Milk, 1 tablespoon Ghee (clarified butter), 2 tablespoon Ghee (clarified butter)

Directions:
step-1: Take milk powder in a medium size bowl.
step-2: Take ghee in a small pan.
step-3: Pour milk in it and heat it over medium flame.
step-4: Cook it till the mixture comes to a boil.
step-5: Pour the mixture over milk powder.
step-6: Mix gently with a spoon.
step-7: Mix it until there are no lumps of dry milk powder.
step-8: If the mixture looks too dry, add few teaspoons of milk (1 teaspoon at a time) and mix well.
step-9: Instant khoya is ready. It will turn little hard as it cools down. Let it cool at room teperature. After that, you can grate it or crumble it as per the requirement.
step-10: Heat ghee and milk together in a pan or kadai over medium flame.
step-11: When the ghee melts completely and milk starts boiling, reduce flame to low. Add milk powder little by little ands stir continuously to prevent lump formation.
step-12: Stir and cook until mixture starts to thicken.
step-13: When it turns into a big lump, turn off the flame.
step-14: Transfer mawa to a bowl and let it cool at room temperature.
