Title: Chocolate Brownie Eggless Recipe

prep time: 25

Description: Chocolate Brownie, this popular baked dessert doesn’t need any introduction. Most of the brownie recipes use eggs but this one doesn’t use eggs, so if you are a vegetarian, vegan or having an egg allergy, then this one is for you. This eggless brownie is moist, has a flaky crust and little bit cake type texture but it’s not very chewy or dense. This recipe uses cocoa powder to get the chocolaty flavor while curd (plain yogurt) and baking powder to make it eggless. Apart from the few basic ingredients, you can add chocolate chips and your choice of nuts as per your preference to make it more chocolaty and nutty, respectively (read in tips and variations). Follow the below given recipe with step by step photos to make the easiest but delicious brownie without eggs.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 cup White granulated Sugar, 3/4 cup Maida (plain flour/all purpose flour) (approx. 80 gm), 1½ teaspoons Baking Powder, 1/3 cup Unsweetened Cocoa Powder (30 gm), 1/2 cup Salted or Unsalted Butter (1 stick/8 tablespoons), melted and cooled, 1/2 cup + 2 tablespoons Curd (plain yogurt/dahi), whole milk curd preferable, 1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract or Vanilla Essence, 1/2 cup Dark or White or Semi Sweet Chocolate Chips, optional

Directions:
step-1: Take a large bowl and add 1 cup granulated sugar in it. If you are using the sugar with larger granules, then grind it in the small jar of a mixer grinder until medium coarse texture (not powdered texture). Sift 3/4 cup all purpose flour(maida) and 1½ teaspoons baking powder in the same bowl using a large sieve.
step-2: Add 1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder.
step-3: Sift the cocoa powder.
step-4: Mix well using a wired whisk or a spoon.
step-5: Take melted and cooled butter in another bowl. Add (1/2 cup + 2 tablespoons) curd (plain yogurt). Curd should not be very thick or watery and should not taste sour.
step-6: Add 1 teaspoon vanilla extract or vanilla essence.
step-7: Mix well using a wired whisk.
step-8: Add previously sifted dry mixture (sugar, flour, cocoa, and baking powder) from step-7.
step-9: Mix well using a wired whisk or spatula. Do not over mix.
step-10: Add 1/2 cup chocolate chips.
step-11: Mix well.
step-12: Pour the batter into previously greased baking pan. Place it in the preheated oven on the middle rack and back it for 35-40 minutes at 180 C (356 F).
step-13: After 35-40 minutes, remove pan from the oven and insert a toothpick or a knife in the center (not on the sides). If it comes out clean, it means brownie is cooked. If it doesn’t, cook it for another 5 minutes. Let it cool completely before removing from the pan. It will take around 40-60 minutes.
step-14: After it cools down, lift the brownie carefully by holding parchment paper from sides. Put it on the cooling rack.
step-15: Cut it into 9-equal pieces using a sharp knife.
step-16: Brownie is ready to serve. It stays good for 2-3 days at room temperature and for a week in the refrigerator.
