Title: Vegetable Spring Rolls Recipe

prep time: 34

Description: Vegetable spring rolls, a popular snack cum starter dish from indo chinese cuisine, which is found in most of the Indian restaurants menu card. These stuffed rolls have a deep fried crispy outer layer and a delicious stuffing of mixed vegetables. For the stuffing, apart from mixed vegetables, boiled noodles and soy sauce are added along with spices for the flavor. It’s an easy task to make the perfect spring rolls at home when you are using the readymade wrappers because they  are easily available in grocery stores, you can find them in freezer section. Rolls can be also made using the homemade wrappers but sometimes the final outcome (the crispiness of roll) will not be good as readymade wrappers. For this reason, readymade wrappers are used in this recipe. Follow the below given recipe with step by step photos to make veg spring rolls at home and enjoy it with schezwan sauce or tomato garlic chutney (momos chutney).

Ingredient: Ingredients: Oil, for deep frying, Salt to taste, 1/4 teaspoon Black Pepper Powder, 2 teaspoons Oil, 1½ teaspoons finely chopped Ginger-Garlic, 1/2 cup Capsicum, finely chopped, 1/2 cup Carrot, julienned or grated, 1/2 cup Cabbage, finely chopped, 1/2 cup French Beans, finely chopped, 1/2 cup Spring Onion, finely chopped, 1/2 cup Boiled Noodles, roughly chopped (optional), 1 teaspoon light Soy Sauce, 15 Spring roll Wrappers (readymade), Maida Paste (2 tablespoons Maida dissolved in 2 tablespoons water)

Directions:
step-1: Chop all the veggies as per the instructions given in the ingredient section. Keep the white part and green part of chopped spring onion separate. Boil the noodles as per the instructions given on the backside of the noodles pack or by following this recipe.
step-2: To julienne the carrot, first cut it either horizontally or vertically into thick slices. Arrange 2-3 slices into a stack and then cut into thins strips using a knife.
step-3: Heat 2-teaspoons oil in a broad pan over high flame. Add finely chopped ginger-garlic and sauté for 10 seconds. Add white part of spring onion and sauté for 30-40 seconds.
step-4: Add capsicum, carrot, cabbage and french beans.
step-5: Sauté for 3-4 minutes.
step-6: Add green part of spring onion.
step-7: Add boiled noodles and black pepper powder.
step-8: Add soy sauce and salt.
step-9: Mix well and sauté them for 2 minutes. Turn off flame. Stuffing is ready.
step-10: Dissolve 2 tablespoons maida in 2-3 tablespoons water to make a smooth and medium thick paste. Follow the instructions given on the wrapper package to separate the sheets. If you are using frozen wrappers, defrost them first and then cover with a damp towel for 2-3 minutes. So the wrapper will come out easily.
step-11: Take one wrapper sheet and place it on a plate or on chopping board. Place 1½-2 tablespoons stuffing at the bottom corner. Keep 1-inch space from sides. Apply little maida paste on the edges using your fingertip or brush.
step-12: Cover the stuffing by folding the bottom corner (as shown in the photo). If you are using a large wrapper sheet, first cover the stuffing and then roll the sheet towards top edge till the center (halfway).
step-13: Fold it from one side (either left or right) to wrap the end portion of stuffing.
step-14: Fold it from another side.
step-15: Now, start rolling gently towards the top edge.
step-16: Seal it tightly by sticking open ends.
step-17: Place it to the plate and make remaining rolls by following the same method. Keep them covered to prevent them from drying.
step-18: Heat oil in a pan or kadai over medium flame. When oil is medium hot, place 3-4 prepared rolls at a time (more or less depending on the size of the pan) in oil and deep fry until light golden brown and crispy.
step-19: Drain excess oil and transfer them to a plate lined with paper towel. Vegetable spring rolls are ready to serve. Cut them into half and serve with tomato ketchup or schezwan sauce.
