Title: Kalakand Recipe

prep time: 22

Description: Kalakand, a delicious milk based sweet with hints of cardamon, is yet another way of enjoying the goodness of milk. It is similar to Barfi and usually prepared on festivals like Diwali, Navaratri and Holi. Kalakand can be prepared at home in two different ways; 1) in traditional way by simmering the milk on low heat until reduced to semi solids, and 2) in instant way by using Paneer and sweetened condensed milk. The tradition cooking approach requires longer cooking time compared with instant method. However, whether its cooked in a traditional way or in instant way, its final taste and texture is similar. This Kalakand Recipe follows instant approach, requires only three ingredients, sweetened condensed milk, paneer and cardamom, and explains entire process with step by step photos.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1/4 teaspoon Green Cardamom Powder, 1½ cups tightly packed grated Paneer (approx. 200 grams), 200 ml Condensed Milk (1/2 tin) (3/4 cup), 5-7 Pistachios, finely chopped, for garnishing, Ghee, for greasing the pan

Directions:
step-1: You can either use the ready made paneer or fresh homemade paneer or chenna for this recipe. Follow this recipe (step-1 to step-5) to make fresh homemade paneer/chenna. Pour 2-3 glasses of water over prepared chenna/paneer to remove any sourness of lemon juice. Keep it aside until required.
step-2: If your want to use readymade paneer and if it is frozen/refrigerated, thaw it at room temperature. Either grate it using a grater. Or alternatively, you can crumble it using a mixer grinder
step-3:  add the paneer cubes in the small jar of mixer grinder and pulse it few times to crumble it.
step-4: Grease inside surface of small deep plate with ghee.
step-5: Add crumbled/grated paneer and condensed milk in a heavy based kadai/pan. (Don’t turn on the stove yet.)
step-6: Mix well using a spoon.
step-7: Heat the mixture over low flame. Stir continuously and cook until it turns thicker.
step-8: As you stir and cook, mixture will start to stick on the sides of the pan as seen in the photo. It will take around 4-7 minutes to cook the mixture.
step-9: Add 1/4 teaspoon cardamom powder.
step-10: Mix well and turn off the flame.
step-11: Transfer mixture to greased plate. Shake it gently to evenly spread the mixture. Level the mixture with a spatula.
step-12: Sprinkle dry fruits over it and gently press them with a spatula.
step-13: Let it cool down to room temperature. Cover and place it in the refrigerator for 2 hours to set.
step-14: Remove it from the refrigerator and cut into small pieces.
step-15: Gently remove the pieces and transfer them to a serving plate. Serve and enjoy.
