Title: Vegetable Puff Recipe

prep time: 36

Description: Vegetable Puff, a snack with crisp-n-flaky outer layer and mixed vegetables stuffing, is a quick and tasty way of satisfying urge of something savory. Preparing Veg Puff is a three step process; prepare puff pastry sheet, prepare stuffing with cooked mixed vegetables and spices, and bake the puff. This Vegetable Puff Recipe explains how to make Vegetable Puff at home using ready made puff pastry sheets with step by step photos. With ready made pastry sheets, it doesn’t require much process and takes only 15-20 minutes for making stuffing and assembling puffs and 15-20 minutes for baking, and cooling them a bit.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1/2 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder, 1 medium Onion, finely chopped (approx. 1/2 cup), Salt to taste, 1/2 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, 2 teaspoons Oil, 1 Ready made Puff Pastry Sheet (used Pepperidge Farm Puff Pastry Sheet), 1 small Boiled Potato, chopped (approx. 1/2 cup), 1/3 cup chopped Carrot, 1/3 cup Green Peas (fresh or frozen), 1/3 cup chopped Green Beans, optional, A pinch of Chaat Masala Powder, 1/3 teaspoon Dry Mango Powder (aamchur) or 1/2 teaspoon Lemon Juice, A pinch of Turmeric Powder, A pinch of Garam Masala Powder, optional, 1 teaspoon Cumin-coriander Powder, optional

Directions:
step-1: Heat 2 teaspoons oil in a pan or kadai over medium flame. Add 1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds
step-2:  when they turn golden brown, add 1/2 cup finely chopped onion. Sauté until onion turns translucent.
step-3: Add 1/3 cup chopped carrot, 1/3 cup green peas, 1/3 cup chopped green beans and a pinch of salt.
step-4: Sauté until vegetables turn little soft. It will take around 3-4 minutes over medium flame.
step-5: Add 1/2 cup chopped boiled potato.
step-6: Mix well and cook for a minute. Add 1/2 teaspoon red chilli powder, a pinch of turmeric powder, a pinch of garam masala powder and 1 teaspoon cumin-coriander powder.
step-7: Add a pinch of chaat masala powder and 1/3 teaspoon dry mango powder.
step-8: Mix well and cook for a minute. Taste for the seasonings and add more if required. Turn off the flame. Stuffing masala for Veg Puff is ready. Let it cool down to room temperature.
step-9: Follow the instructions given on the box to thaw or defrost the puff pastry sheet.
step-10: Thaw the pastry sheet to room temperature. Preheat the oven at 425 F (220 C) for 10 minutes.
step-11: Cut thawed sheet into 3 to 4 inch squares as shown in the photo. Put 1-2 tablespoons stuffing in the center of half of the squares. Lightly moisten the edges with a wet brush or finger.
step-12: Fold each one to give a triangle shape (as shown in the photo). You can also cover it with another square to give it a square shape. Press the edges with hand or a fork.
step-13: Place raw puffs directly on baking tray or a baking tray lined with aluminum foil/butter paper.
step-14: Place baking tray on the middle rack in preheated oven and bake it at 425 F (220 C) for around 18-20 minutes or until the top surface turns golden brown and crispy. Remove baking tray from oven.
step-15: Carefully transfer puffs on to a cooling rack/wire rack with spatula. Let veg puffs cool down for 10 minutes. Serve warm veg puffs with tomato ketch up or green chutney and a cup of tea.
