Title: Akki Roti (Rice Roti) Recipe

prep time: 38

Description: Akki Roti, a soft-n-crispy flatbread made with rice flour, grated carrot, onion and basic Indian spices, is one of the best ways to start your day. It is very popular in Karnataka where Akki means rice in Kannada and hence it is known as Akki Roti (Rice Roti). It is very easy to prepare and takes only 15-20 minutes – first a soft dough is prepared by mixing rice flour with vegetables, spices and water, flattened into thin round shaped disc, and cooked on tawa until crisp and light brown. Traditional preparation of this Rice Roti requires flattening the dough directly on hot tawa. However, it is a difficult process and has risk of burning your fingers accidentally. This Akki Roti Recipe uses an innovative Parchment Paper technique that allows you to roll dough into roti off of tawa and then place it directly on tawa without struggling with dough’s stickiness; thus making an entire cooking process easy and non-messy. Enjoy it with a South Indian Coconut Chutney and various curries.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, Salt to taste, 1 Green Chilli, finely chopped, 1 cup Rice Flour, 1 small Onion, finely chopped (1/3 cup), 1/2 Carrot, grated (1/3 cup), 3 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, Warm Water, as needed (1/2 cup + 2 tablespoons approx.), Oil, for roasting

Directions:
step-1: Transfer rice flour in to a large bowl.
step-2: Add finely chopped onion, grated carrot, finely chopped green chilli, cumin seeds, finely chopped coriander leaves and salt.
step-3: Mix well.
step-4: Add warm water little by little in the mixture as needed and knead soft dough. It should be softer than chapati dough.
step-5: Divide dough into 4 equal portions.
step-6: Place parchment paper/banana leaf/aluminum foil on the flat surface and grease it with few drops of oil. Take one dough ball and place it over parchment paper.
step-7: Wet your hand and pat it evenly into thin round circle (thickness should be slightly less than 1/4-inch).
step-8: Make a hole in the center. This allows steam to escape easily and helps make it crispy.
step-9: Heat griddle or non-stick tava/pan over medium flame. When it is medium hot, take the parchment paper with flattened raw akki roti in your hand
step-10:  flip and gently place flattened disc over tava keeping paper on top side.
step-11: Slowly peel/separate the parchment paper from the flattened roti.
step-12: Drizzle 1-teaspoon oil around the edges.
step-13: Cover with a lid and cook until bottom surface turns light golden brown and crisp or for around 2-3 minutes.
step-14: Remove the lid.
step-15: Flip it over another side and cook for 2-minutes.
step-16: Transfer it to a plate. Repeat steps 6 to 14 for remaining dough balls. Serve hot akki roti with your favorite chutney or a dollop of ghee or butter.
