Title: Bisi Bele Bath Powder Recipe

prep time: 26

Description: Bisi Bele Bath Powder is an aromatic South Indian spice powder required for preparing authentic bisi bele bath (lentil-rice-veggie dish) at home. It is easy to prepare at home using various types of dals, dry red chillies, coriander seeds, cumin seeds, fenugreek seeds, cinnamon, cloves, cardamom, poppy seeds, dry coconut and asafoetida. All ingredients are first dry roasted individually until light brown and then grounded together into smooth powder. This technique gives it an invigorating aroma that is neither strong nor dull. The quantity of dry red chillies can be changed in this bisi bele bath powder recipe according to your spice level tolerance.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, 1/4 teaspoon Asafoetida (hing), 2½ tablespoons Chana Dal, 1/3 cup (6 tablespoons) Coriander Seeds, 7-8 Dry Red Chillies (byadagi or kashmiri) (any less spicy chilli), 4 Dry Red Chilli (any normal chilli), 1/2 teaspoon Fenugreek Seeds, 1 teaspoon White Poppy Seeds, 1.5 inch long piece of Cinnamon, 4 Cloves, 2 Green Cardamoms, 1/4 cup (4 tablespoons) desiccated Coconut (dry grated coconut)

Directions:
step-1: Assemble all ingredients.
step-2: Dry roast chana dal in a pan over low flame until light golden brown and nice aroma starts to release. It will take around 1-2 minutes. Transfer it to a plate.
step-3: Dry roast coriander seeds and dry red chillies until nice aroma releases or for approx. 1-minute. Transfer them to same plate.
step-4: Add fenugreek seeds, cumin seeds, white poppy seeds, cinnamon, cloves and green cardamom in the same pan and dry roast until nice aroma releases or for approx. 30-40 seconds. Transfer them to same plate.
step-5: Add dry grated coconut in the pan and dry roast over low flame until they turn light brown. Transfer them to plate.
step-6: Let all roasted ingredients cool-down to room temperature.
step-7: Transfer them to small jar of a mixer grinder.
step-8: Add asafoetida and grind until smooth powder. Bisi bele bath powder is now ready. Store it in airtight container and use it as needed to make Bisi Bele Bath at home. It stays good for 2-3 weeks when stored at room temperature and 6-8 weeks when stored in refrigerator.
