Title: White Sauce Pasta Recipe

prep time: 32

Description:  Tired of eating Red Tomato Pasta? Try this White Sauce Pasta! With its silky smooth and aromatic sauce made from butter, milk and all purpose flour (maida), it’s a guaranteed way to delight your taste buds. Similar to Tomato Pasta, White Pasta is also extremely simple to make and takes only 15-17 minutes; prepare lightly spiced aromatic fresh white sauce, stir-fry the veggies, boil the pasta, and mix them all. Easy, isn’t it? This White Sauce Pasta Recipe explains the entire cooking process with step by step photos to make cooking it even simpler for new as well as expert cooks.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1/2 teaspoon Salt, Salt to taste, 1½ tablespoons Maida (all purpose flour), 3/4 cup Penne Pasta or any Pasta, 4-5 cups Water, 1/2 teaspoon Oil, 1/4 cup chopped Carrot, 1/4 cup chopped Green Capsicum, 1/4 cup chopped Red Capsicum, 1/4 cup chopped Broccoli, 1½ tablespoons Butter, 1 teaspoon finely chopped Garlic, optional, 1½ cups Milk (250 ml), 1/4 teaspoon dried Oregano, optional (or pizza seasonings), 1/4 teaspoon Red Chilli Flakes, A pinch of Black Pepper Powder (or crushed pepper)

Directions:
step-1: Boil raw pasta according to the instructions given on the package or follow following instructions
step-2:  Take 4-5 cups water in deep sauce pan, bring it to boil over medium flame. When it start boiling, add 3/4 cup Penne pasta and 1/2 teaspoon salt.
step-3: Boil them until al-dente (cooked but not very soft). It will take around 10-12 minutes. To check whether pasta is cooked or not, take one pasta in a fork and bite it. If it is little firm to bite, it is cooked. If it is too hard to bite, it requires more cooking.
step-4: Transfer cooked pasta to a large colander and drain excess water.
step-5: While pasta is cooking, heat 1/2 teaspoon oil in a pan or kadai over high flame. Add 1/4 cup chopped carrot, 1/4 cup chopped green capsicum, 1/4 cup chopped red capsicum, 1/4 cup chopped broccoli and salt.
step-6: Stir and cook until veggies are little cooked but still crunchy, for around 2-3 minutes. Turn off the flame and transfer them to a plate.
step-7: Heat 1½ tablespoons butter in the same pan or kadai over medium flame. Add 1/2 teaspoon finely chopped garlic and sauté for 30 seconds.
step-8: Add 1½ tablespoons maida (all purpose flour).
step-9: Stir continuously and cook for a minute.
step-10: Pour 1½ cups milk little by little while stirring continuously with a whisk.
step-11: Stir and mix for 1-2 minutes.
step-12: Reduce flame to low. Continue stirring and cooking until mixture starts to thicken. It will take around 3-4 minutes depending on the size and thickness of the pan. When mixture starts to coat the back of a spoon as shown in the picture here, it means that it has started to thicken.
step-13: Add 1/4 teaspoon oregano, 1/4 teaspoon red chilli flakes, a pinch of black pepper powder and salt.
step-14: Mix well.
step-15: Add sautéed vegetables and pasta.
step-16: Turn off the flame. Mix well.
step-17: Transfer it to a serving plate. White sauce pasta is now ready. Garnish it with grated cheese and serve while they are still hot.
