Title: Aloo Matar Curry Recipe

prep time: 34

Description: Aloo Matar is a mouth watering Indian curry of potato and green peas that tastes delicious when served with phulka roti, chapati or paratha in lunch or dinner. This curry is very easy to make using a pressure cooker within 15 minutes. Follow this easy, simple and healthy aloo matar curry recipe today and give treat to your taste buds.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 2 tablespoons Oil, 1/2 teaspoon Cumin Seeds (jeera), Salt to taste, 3/4 cup fresh or frozen Green Peas (approx. 100 gm), 2 medium Potatoes, peeled and cubed (approx. 250 gm), 1 large Tomato, finely chopped (approx. 1/2 cup), 1/4 teaspoon Mustard Seeds (rai), 2 teaspoons Cumin-Coriander Powder (dhania-jeera powder), 3/4 teaspoon Red Chilli Powder (lal mirch), 1/2 teaspoon Turmeric Powder (haldi), 2 tablespoons Coriander Leaves, finely chopped, 3/4 cup Water

Directions:
step-1: Peel and wash the potatoes. Cut them into 1/2-inch pieces. In this recipe, frozen green peas are used but you can use either fresh or frozen green peas according to the availability.
step-2: Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a pressure cooker over medium flame. Add mustard seeds
step-3:  when they begin to crackle, add cumin seeds.
step-4: When cumin seeds turn light golden, add finely chopped tomato.
step-5: Stir and cook until tomato pieces turn soft. Add 2 teaspoons cumin-coriander powder, 3/4 teaspoon red chilli powder and 1/2 teaspoon turmeric powder.
step-6: Stir and cook for a minute.
step-7: Add chopped potatoes, green peas and salt.
step-8: Stir and cook for 2-3 minutes.
step-9: Add 3/4 cup water and mix well.
step-10: Close the lid of pressure cooker and cook for 2-whistles over medium flame.
step-11: Turn off the flame and let the pressure inside the cooker comes down naturally. Remove the lid. Mix well and taste the curry. If required, add more salt and mix well.
step-12: If the curry has more gravy or looks watery, cook it for few more minutes or until you get the desired consistency of gravy. Garnish it with chopped coriander leaves. Aloo matar curry is ready for serving.
