Title: Moong Dal Vada (Pakoda) Recipe

prep time: 35

Description: Moong dal vada, a quick and tasty vegetarian Indian snack is one of the famous street foods in Gujarat which is usually served with tea or coffee during cold rainy days. It is also known as moong dal pakoda and moong dal bhajiya in different parts of India. In this recipe, moong dal (split yellow or green lentils), onion, ginger and green chilli are used to make this crispy and spicy deep fried fritters.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Oil, for deep frying, 1 cup Moong Dal (split green gram with or without skin), 1 medium Onion, finely chopped, 1 teaspoon chopped Ginger (1/2 inch piece), 2 Green Chillis, chopped (more or less as per the spiciness), 2-4 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, 1/8 teaspoon Baking Soda (check the quantity), 1 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, Salt, to taste

Directions:
step-1: Wash the moong dal in water for 2-3 times.
step-2: Soak it in enough water for 3-4 hours. After 3-4 hours, drain excess water from the soaked dal.
step-3: Take a small or a big jar of the mixer grinder. Add 1 teaspoon chopped ginger and 2 green chillis.
step-4: Add soaked and drained moong dal.
step-5: Grind it in a grinder or food processor until medium coarse texture. If required, add 1-2 tablespoons water while grinding. Don’t add too much water.
step-6: Transfer it to a medium size bowl. Add 1 finely chopped onion, 3-4 tablespoons finely chopped coriander leaves, 1/8 teaspoon baking soda, 1 teaspoon cumin seeds and salt to taste.
step-7: Mix well. If required, add a little bit of water to make a little soft batter (keep it thicker than bhajii batter). (If the batter turns runny, add a few teaspoons of gram flour (chickpea flour) or rice flour or semolina (sooji/rava) to make a little bit thick batter).
step-8: Heat oil in a deep kadai over medium flame for deep frying. When oil is medium hot, drop a small portion of batter into the oil and if it comes upward without changing the color then it is ready for deep frying. If it turns brown immediately then oil is too hot. When oil is medium hot, drop 6-7 small lemon sized amount of batter in oil using your hand or a spoon.
step-9: Deep fry them until light golden brown and crispy.
step-10: Remove them from oil using a slotted spoon and transfer to a plate lined with kitchen paper. Do the same process for the remaining batter. Hot Moong Dal Vada are ready. Serve them hot with tomato ketchup and green coriander chutney.
