Title: Schezwan Fried Rice Recipe

prep time: 32

Description: Schezwan Fried Rice, a spicy rice dish from Indo-chinese cuisine, is very similar to Chinese Fried Rice but has one special ingredient; “Schezwan Sauce”, which gives it a deep spicy chilli-garlic flavor. If you are a spicy food lover, then this is the perfect recipe for you since it not only tastes delicious but is also very easy to make at home in just 15 minutes with pre-cooked rice and schezwan sauce. For this Indo-Chinese delicacy, you can either make schezwan sauce at home in advance (it stays good for 2-3 weeks in refrigerator) or use the store bought one. Following Schezwan Fried Rice Recipe is very similar to Schezwan Fried Noodles and explains each step with accompanying photo. And yes, don’t forget to read the tips section given below to give it a personal touch.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt to taste, 1½ tablespoons Oil, 1/4 teaspoon Black Pepper Powder, 3 cups cooked Plain Rice, 1¾ cups Mixed Vegetables (french beans, carrot, capsicum, cabbage, celery), 2-3 cloves of Garlic, finely chopped (approx. 1/2 tablespoon), 1/4 cup finely chopped Spring Onion or Onion, 2-3 tablespoon Schezwan Sauce (or to taste)

Directions:
step-1: Schezwan Fried Rice requires separated cooked rice grains. To achieve this and speed up the cooking process, you can cook steamed rice 2-3 hours in advance or use the leftover rice for this recipe. To prepare stemed rice
step-2:  wash 1 cup rice with water for 3-4 times and soak them in it for 15 minutes. Cook soaked rice with 2 cups water in a pressure cooker over medium flame for 2-whistles. Turn off the flame and let pressure inside the cooker come down naturally. Remove the lid and fluff the rice with a fork.
step-3: Finely chop all vegetables (1/2 cup cabbage, 1/2 cup capsicum, 1/4 cup carrot, 1/4 cup French beans, 1/4 cup celery (optional)). You can add or remove the vegetables according to availability and your preference.
step-4: Follow this recipe to make the schezwan sauce at home. You can also use the ready-made schezwan sauce.
step-5: Heat 1½ tablespoons oil in a pan over medium flame. Add finely chopped garlic and sauté for 30 seconds.
step-6: Add finely chopped spring onion and sauté for 30 seconds.
step-7: Add finely chopped veggies (french beans, carrot, capsicum, cabbage, celery).
step-8: Increase flame to high and stir-fry for 3-4 minutes.
step-9: Cook veggies until they are cooked yet crunchy. Don’t cook them till they turn soft.
step-10: Add 2-tablespoons schezwan sauce, black pepper powder and salt (schezwan sauce already has salt in it so add salt only to compensate for veggies). If you are using store bought schezwan sauce, add 1½ tablespoons sauce, taste the rice and then add more if required after adding the rice in step-12.
step-11: Mix well.
step-12: Add cooked rice.
step-13: Mix well. Stir fry and toss the rice for 2-3 minutes or until the each rice grain is coated well with the sauce and veggies. Taste and add more sauce or seasonings if required. Schezwan fried rice is ready for serving. Serve them with any gravy manchurian or soup.
