Title: Schezwan Noodles Recipe

prep time: 28

Description: Among all Indo-Chinese Noodles recipes, Schezwan Noodles is one of the most sought after and widely preferred Noodle Recipes due to its spicy taste and unique garlic flavor. Preparing Schezwan Noodles at Home is very easy and similar to Veg Hakka Noodles Recipe with only difference being this recipe uses a “Spicy Schezwan Sauce” as its main flavoring agent. Just toss the boiled noodles with stir-fried veggies and Schezwan Sauce and voila, your noodles are ready. This Schezwan Noodles Recipe explains entire process with step by step photos and also explains how to boil noodles at home as well as prepare Schezwan Sauce from scratch.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 2 tablespoons Oil, Salt to taste, Salt, 1/4 teaspoon Black Pepper Powder, 1 teaspoon Oil, 150 gms Plain Noodles, 5-6 cups Water, 3-4 cloves of Garlic, finely chopped (approx. 3/4 tablespoon), 1/2 inch Ginger, finely chopped (approx. 1 teaspoon), 1 small Onion or 2-3 Spring Onion, finely chopped (approx. 1/4 cup), 1/2 cup shredded Cabbage, 1/3 cup chopped Capsicum, 1/3 cup finely chopped Carrot, 1/3 cup finely chopped French Beans (green beans), 2 tablespoons Schezwan Sauce (or to taste) upto 3 Tablespoons, 1 teaspoon White Vinegar

Directions:
step-1: Cut all the veggies as per instructions given in the ingredients section. Keep other ingredients ready.
step-2: Start by boiling the noodles first. Boil noodles by either following the instructions given on the package or follow the instructions given below (click here to see detailed method with step by step photos). (Pour approx. 5-6 cups water in a large pot and bring it to a boil over medium flame. When it starts to boil, add raw noodles, 1/4 teaspoon oil (2-3 drops), and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Boil the noodles for 4-5 minutes or until it’s 90% cooked. Transfer it to a colander and drain the excess water. Pour 2-3 cups cold water over it or rinse it by keeping it under running water and drain again to remove excess stickiness and prevent further cooking. Add 3/4 teaspoon oil and toss gently to coat noodles evenly with oil. This process helps to prevent sticking.)
step-3: Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a pan or wok over medium flame. Add finely chopped garlic, ginger and white parts of spring onion.
step-4: Sauté for a minute. (If you are using the regular onion, sauté until it turns translucent.)
step-5: Add carrot and french beans and sauté for a minute.
step-6: Add finely chopped cabbage and capsicum. Stir and cook over high flame for 3-4 minutes or until the veggies are cooked but little crunchy (not until they turn soft).
step-7: Add schezwan sauce, black pepper powder and salt. (Schezwan sauce already has salt in it so add only a pinch of salt to compensate for veggies). You can increase or decrease the amount of schezwan sauce per your spice level tolerance. Start by adding 1-tablespoon sauce at a time and then add more as required to get the perfect spiciness you would enjoy.
step-8: Mix well.
step-9: Add boiled noodles and vinegar.
step-10: Mix well. Stir-fry until noodles are evenly coated with the sauce. If you are an expert in cooking, toss noodles to mix well or else just stir-fry and mix well. Taste noodles and add more sauce or seasonings if required.
step-11: Turn off the flame. Schezwan noodles are ready for serving.
