Title: Schezwan Sauce Recipe

prep time: 22

Description: Schezwan Sauce, a fiery hot and spicy sauce made from dry red chilli, garlic and sauteed onion, is a must have condiment with Indo-Chinese snacks like vegetable momos, spring rolls, French fries etc,. It is also an important ingredient for making Schezwan Fried Rice and Schezwan Fried Noodles. This Schezwan Sauce Recipe uses Dry Kashmiri Red Chillis  since they are less spicy compared with other red chillies to tame down the spiciness of this fiery sauce. However, you can use combination of any dry red hot chillis and Kashmiri chillis to make this sauce as spicy as your taste buds can tolerate.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt to taste, 1/4 teaspoon Black Pepper Powder, 15-18 Dry Red Kashmiri Chillis*, 3-4 tablespoons Sesame Oil or any Cooking Oil, 1/4 cup finely chopped Onion or 3-4 Shallots, 10-12 small Garlic Cloves, chopped (approx. 2½ tablespoons), 1/2 tablespoon finely chopped Ginger (approx. 1-inch), 1/4 teaspoon Dark Soy Sauce or 1/2 teaspoon Light Soy Sauce, 1 tablespoon Vinegar or lemon Juice, 1½ tablespoon Tomato Sauce, 1 tablespoon Sugar

Directions:
step-1: Remove stems from dry red chillis. Cut chilli into halves, open them and remove seeds. Discard the seeds.
step-2: Soak chilli halves in warm water for 30 minutes.
step-3: Drain excess water from soaked red chillis. Transfer them to a small jar of a grinder. Add 2 tablespoons water.
step-4: Grind into a smooth paste.
step-5: Heat 3-4 tablespoons oil in a pan over medium flame. Add finely chopped onion and sauté until it turns light pink.
step-6: Add finely chopped ginger and garlic, sauté for around a minute until raw smell of garlic goes off.
step-7: Add ground red chilli paste. Mix well and sauté for a minute.
step-8: Add 1½ tablespoon tomato sauce.
step-9: Add 1/4 teaspoon dark soy sauce or 1/2 teaspoon light soy sauce.
step-10: Add 1 tablespoon vinegar.
step-11: Add 1/4 teaspoon black pepper powder, sugar and salt.
step-12: Mix well and cook for a minute. Add 1/4 cup water and mix well.
step-13: Cook for approx. 2-3 minutes until oil starts to appear on sides. Turn off the flame. Once it cools down to room temperature, transfer it to a small container and store in the refrigerator for anytime use. It stays good for 2-3 weeks in refrigerator. Schezwan sauce is ready to serve with fried rice or momos. It can also be used to make schezwan noodles and fried rice.
