Title: Uttapam Recipe

prep time: 28

Description:  Uttapam (aka Uttappa or Oothapam) is yet another healthy breakfast recipe from South Indian cuisine prepared with a common rice and urad dal batter used for preparing Idli and dosa. However, unlike Dosa, Uttapam is little thicker and is topped with different types of veggies like onion, tomato, capsicum, carrot, green chilli, sweet corn etc. which makes it even more healthier and tastier. Similar to idli and dosa recipes, you can prepare Rice and Urad Dal batter in advance and use it over multiple days to make delicious Uttapam in just 20 minutes for the breakfast. This Uttapam Recipe explains entire process with step by step photos and provides tips to give it a personal touch by choosing your favorite vegetables or make it like a pizza by garnishing it with grated mozzarella cheese.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 medium Onion, finely chopped (approx. 1/2 cup), Salt to taste, 2 cups Idli Batter or Dosa Batter (homemade or readymade), 1/2 cup finely chopped Capsicum, optional, 1/3 cup finely chopped Tomato, 2-3 green chillies, finely chopped, Oil for shallow frying

Directions:
step-1: Prepare the batter at home by following this recipe or buy the readymade batter from the grocery store. Add salt (if not added before fermenting the batter) and water (if needed) in batter
step-2:  mix well. Batter should be slightly thicker than dosa batter and slightly thinner than idli batter.
step-3: Heat cast iron tava (dosa tawa) or non-stick tawa over medium flame. (for nice golden color, we recommend to use cast iron tawa.) Add few drops of oil on hot tawa and spread it using a halved potato or a halved small onion. This process helps spreading of batter and also prevents it from sticking. Repeat this process before making each uttapam.
step-4: When tawa is ready, pour one laddle batter and spread it in round shape by gently rotating the ladle in clockwise or anti-clockwise direction. make sure that batter spread is slightly thicker than a batter spread for Dosa.
step-5: Sprinkle 1-2 tablespoons finely chopped onion and 1-2 tablespoons finely chopped capsicum over it.
step-6: Sprinkle 1 tablespoon finely chopped tomato and finely chopped green chillies over it. Gently press the veggies with a spatula.
step-7: Drizzle 1-teaspoon oil around the edge.
step-8: Cook for approx.2-3 minutes until bottom surface turns light golden brown. If you are making very thick uttapam, cover it with a lid to speed up the cooking process.
step-9: Flip it gently and cook another side for a minute or until the bottom surface looks cooked.
step-10: Transfer it to a plate. Repeat the process from step-2 to step-8 for remaining batter.
step-11: Serve it hot with coconut chutney or tomato onion chutney.
