Title: Kuzhi Paniyaram Recipe

prep time: 31

Description: Paniyaram, a small round shaped breakfast snack item made from idli batter, is like a shallow fried idli with crisp crust and soft inner. Paniyaram is best way to use leftover idli batter and can be either sweet or savory depending on how its batter is prepared. For sweet paniyaram, jaggery is added and for savory paniyaram, sauteed chilli, onion and curry leaves mixture is added into the batter. This recipe explains how to make savory Masala Paniyaram using a special utensil called Appe Pan or Aebleskiver Pan or Paniyaram Chatti in less than 10 minutes with step by step photos.  Note: Paniyaram is known as “Kuzhi Paniyaram” in Tamilnadu, “Paddu” in Karnataka and “Gunta Ponganalu” in Andhra Pradesh. Recipe given below is same for all.

Ingredient: Ingredients: Salt to taste, 5-7 Curry Leaves, 1/2 teaspoon Mustard Seeds, 2-3 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, 2 cups Idli Batter, 1 medium Onion (or shallots), finely chopped (approx. 1/3 cup), 1-2 green Chillis, finely chopped, 1/2 tablespoon Oil + shallow frying

Directions:
step-1: Prepare idli batter at home by following this recipe. Alternatively, you can also use ready-made store bought idli batter.
step-2: Heat 1/2 tablespoon oil in a small pan over medium flame. Add mustard seeds. When they begin to crackle, add curry leaves, green chilli and finely chopped onion.
step-3: Sauté until onion turns light pink. Turn off the flame and let the mixture cool down for few minutes to room temperature.
step-4: Take idli batter in a large bowl. Add cooked onion mixture, 2-3 tablespoons finely chopped coriander leaves and salt in it. Note: add salt only if you did not add it while making the batter.
step-5: Mix well. If batter is too thick (thicker than idli batter), add a little bit of water and mix well. Batter should not have runny consistency like dosa batter.
step-6: Heat the appe pan (aebleskiver pan or paniyaram pan) over medium flame. Add few drops of oil in each round mould.
step-7: Pour a spoonful of batter  in each one (fill only until 3/4 of the each mould).
step-8: Cover it with a lid/plate and cook over low-medium flame for around 2-3 minutes or until bottom surface turns light golden brown.
step-9: Remove the lid and flip each paniyaram using a spoon.
step-10: Cook another side for about a minute until bottom surface turns light golden.
step-11: Remove them using a spoon and transfer to a plate. Serve with tomato chutney, coconut chutney and sambar or with tomato ketch up and tea/coffee in the breakfast.
