Title: Rava Dosa Recipe

prep time: 34

Description: Rava Dosa, a thin and crispy crepe made from rava and rice flour, is one of the easiest type of Dosa to prepare at home. Unlike other Dosa Recipes, Rava Dosa doesn’t require batter to be fermented overnight and can be prepared instantly in just 15 minutes; mix all ingredients (rava, rice flour, maida, finely chopped onion, cumin seeds, green chilli, ginger, water, salt, etc.) and let it rest for 20 minutes. Simple, isn’t it? Additionally, this Instant Rava Dosa Recipe also explains the entire process with step by step photos and gives tips for how to prevent them from sticking to Tawa. So what are you waiting for? Let’s get started and make your breakfast even more delicious and enjoyable!

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1 teaspoon Cumin Seeds, Salt to taste, 1 Green Chilli, finely chopped, 2 tablespoons finely chopped Coriander Leaves, 1/2 cup Rava (sooji/semolina), 1/2 cup Rice Flour, 1/4 cup Maida (all purpose flour), 1/4 inch Ginger, grated or finely chopped (approx. 1/2 teaspoon), 5-6 Curry Leaves, chopped, 1 Onion, finely chopped (approx. 1/4 cup), optional, 2¼ – 2½ cups Water (approx.), Oil, for roasting dosa

Directions:
step-1: Assemble all the ingredients to make the batter.
step-2: Add 1/2 cup rava (sooji), 1/2 cup rice flour and 1/4 cup maida in a large bowl.
step-3: Add salt (approx. ½ teaspoon or to taste) and 2 cups water. Mix well using a large spoon or a wire whisk until there are no flour lumps.
step-4: Add 1 teaspoon cumin seeds, 1 chopped green chilli, 1/4 inch chopped/grated ginger, 5-6 chopped curry leaves, 2 tablespoons finely chopped coriander leaves and 1/4 cup finely chopped onion.
step-5: Mix well and check the batter for consistency. It should have pouring buttermilk like consistency (NOT like simple dosa batter). Add more water until batter attains pouring consistency. Cover it with a plate and let it rest for 20 minutes. After about 20 minutes, check for the consistency again. Rava (semolina) absorbs water after soaking so batter may become thick. If required, add more water to bring it to pouring consistency. Stir the batter and mix well.
step-6: Heat a non-stick dosa tawa/skillet over medium flame. Ensure that tawa is hot otherwise the batter will stick to the pan and dosa will not come out easily. You can check whether tawa is sufficiently hot or not to make dosa, sprinkle few drops of water on it. If water droplets evaporate immediately, it means tava is hot and ready to make dosas. Take ladle full batter and pour from about 3-4 inch height on in a circular motion starting from edge to the center.
step-7:  Pour the batter until it covers the center. Maintain some holes here and there. These holes steam to escape and makes dosa crispy.
step-8: Sprinkle 1/2-teaspoon oil around edges of dosa. Cook until it turns light golden brown and crispy, for approx. 2-minutes.
step-9: Flip it on another side and cook for another minute or until it turns little crispy.
step-10: Transfer hot thin crispy rava dosa to a serving plate and serve it with coconut chutney.
step-11: Repeat the process from step-4 to step-9 for remaining batter. Stir and mix the batter well before making each dosa.
