Title: Eggless Vanilla Sponge Cake Recipe

prep time: 24

Description: Baking a Sponge Cake is an art and even most seasoned cooks sometimes struggle to get the right spongy texture. Generally all cake recipes require using egg to make it soft, and due to this, baking a cake at home becomes prohibitive if you don’t prefer to use egg or follow strict vegetarian food diet. With this Eggless Vanilla Sponge Cake Recipe’s step by step photo guide, carefully measured ingredients and detailed explanation of process, making a soft and spongy cake at home is very easy. Unlike other Vanilla Cake Recipes, this recipe doesn’t use butter or condensed milk. Instead, it uses plain curd (yogurt), baking soda and baking powder to make the cake spongy and fluffy. Plain curd and baking soda reacts with one another which makes cake soft while baking powder makes it raise during baking, giving it a light and fluffy texture.

Ingredient: Ingredients: 1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda, 1 teaspoon Baking Powder, 1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract or Vanilla Essence, 1½ cups All Purpose Flour (Maida) (approx. 200 gms), 1 cup Curd (Plain Yogurt) (250 ml), 3/4 cup Granulated Sugar (or 1-2 tablespoons less) (165 gms), 1/2 cup Cooking Oil (any smell-less oil like sunflower oil) (125 ml)

Directions:
step-1: Pre heat the oven to 180 degree C (356 degree F) for 10 minutes.
step-2: Take either two 6-inches (round or square) baking pans or one 8-inch baking pan. Grease entire surface of the pan with oil or melted butter using a brush.
step-3: Sprinkle some maida over it and tilt the pan in all directions so the maida covers the greased surface. Line the pan with a parchment paper (or butter paper).
step-4: Sift 1½ cups all purpose flour (maida) in a large bowl.
step-5: Add 1 cup plain curd and 3/4 cup sugar in another large bowl.
step-6: Mix well using a wired whisk until smooth. Add 1/2 teaspoon baking soda and 1 teaspoon baking powder.
step-7: Mix well and keep the mixture idle for 5 minutes. As the baking soda starts to react with the curd, bubbles will start to appear on the surface.
step-8: Add 1/2 cup oil. Use any cooking oil that doesn’t have a strong smell, e.g sunflower oil, light olive oil.
step-9: Add 1 teaspoon vanilla extract or vanilla essence and mix well.
step-10: Add previously sifted flour (maida).
step-11: Mix well using a wired whisk or a spatula.
step-12: Mix until it turns little smooth and no visible signs of white flour. Do not worry if the mixture is little lumpy.
step-13: Pour batter into previously greased pan. Place it in pre-heated oven and bake for 35-40 minutes at 180 C (356 F) until the top looks brown.
step-14: Remove the pan from the oven and insert a toothpick in the center to check whether it is fully cooked or not. If it comes out clean, then it means it is cooked. If it does not, then cook for few more minutes. If the cake turns brown from the top but remains uncooked from inside, cover the pan with aluminum foil to prevent cake from turning brown further and bake again for 5-10 minutes.
step-15: Let it cool for 15-20 minutes. Run a knife on sides of the pan. Place a cooling rack (or a plate) on the pan and invert both pan and rack to remove the cake from pan easily. Carefully remove the parchment paper. It will come out very easily.
step-16: Cake is ready. Either serve it as is with coffee or garnish with chocolate syrup or vanilla frosting and enjoy.
